Deft Detective - Lost&Found in your pocket

The project phase for Deft Detective started with the tracks of UX Design, Web Development and Dats Science. Contributors were Vida and Rosaria in UX Design, Francisco and John in Data Science and Ajla and at the beginning Quyen and at the end Guihelme in Web Development. The mentors were Dmitry and Tatiana. We agreed on a weekly meeting to update the respective tracks and a general updating on Notion.’

The core idea at the beginning was to develop an app that includes a public and a private area for reporting lost items. The private area was for finding personal items left with family and friends. The public area was for posting public lost items in a feed. This idea turned out to be quite a challenge, and as a team we decided to focus on the public area. After thinking about it for a while, we came up with a proposal to develop an app that sends an email to businesses. The user provides the following data of the object: name, description, photos, date, time window and approximate location as a polygon in a map. This data is then sent as an email to the stores. An e-mail is explicitly sent to the stores that are located in the selected radius of the user. The owner of the store can confirm or deny the finding of the object. The user gets a feedback in the form of an e-mail.

This whole process took about 3 weeks. In those 3 weeks, a first prototype came out in React JS. Ajla presented the page. The page included fields for the information of the object and loss and a map, but it didn't serve any functionality. The information is stored as a data form.
At the same time, Quyen was trying to figure out how to proceed with emailing, Data Science how to get the data from the restaurants, and UX how to design this concept a user-friendly app, after considering best practices and similar applications/websites for lost and found. Vida and Rosaria had two main workshops with their mentor, who guided them creating the happy customer journey. In this brainstorming phase they used to work simultaneously on Figjam. The main outcome of this process was the idea to simplify the process using three main questions to ask users. 

We decided to do a mobile version of the app because it would be quicker and easier to report a loss, and the UX then took care of the wireframe of the app in Figma. Vida and Rosaria found a good balance in their collaboration and they could always count on their mentor, who stayed  available for the whole project phase. 

After about four weeks Quyen announced her departure and we welcomed Guihelme as a new team member for the backend. Big problems presented themselves at the beginning when creating the client and server side. After a while the connection from React JS to node.js by Ajla and to MongoDB by Guihelme was chopped off as successful. 

The UX team presented two prototypes with two alternatives to determinate the area the item was lost in: Radius-based area selection (designed by Vida) and draw-based area selection (designed by Rosaria). To identify the best practice they launched a A/B test using Maze. Based on the outcome of the test we decided to go on with the draw-based area selection, where the user can draw a polygon directly on the map.  

Guihelme  took care of the Berlin map with the polygon drawn in it, from which the coordinates are from, and log in the user. Date Science continued to have problems bridging the gap between the map, the store and its email.
After some UI consideration on colour palettes and logo, the UX showed the finished framework in color and Ajla then took care of the coding in the frontend. Via Figma, individual properties such as color and text type could be adopted. But the majority was developed freely without further frameworks like Bootstrap. The path was considered successful from start to finish, but does not send any data to the backend at this point. 
There were difficulties on Github in merging the server and client side after working from the front-end and back-end. At this time, the coordinates of the polygon were displayed. The login also worked but we choose to go only for the user's e-mail.

In general the communication in the team during the project phase was good and all the techies were committed. Unfortunately lately it became harder due to some difficulties on the part of the DS to solve some issues in their tasks so the team cohesion has been a bit lacking to not existing, which ended in the extension of the submission date for Ajla and Guilherme.

The further communication between Guilherme and Ajla was good. Both of them worked hard to finally finish the project. Guilherme finally archieved to run the app with a database of buisnesses Zubin has send him. Ajla styled everything to keep it beautiful for the user, taking the Figma design as example. 

Thank you very much.